One of the first things you will realize as a web developer is that the Internet speeds vary for everybody.
And people don't have time to wait for your web site to load.
Performance is very very important.
All big companies prioritize Fast User experience because they know that people today are used to not
waiting around Amazon calculated that on their Web site if a page load slows down just one second that
could cost them 1.6 billion in sales each year.
Google so did a calculation and by slowing its search results by just four tenths of a second they could
lose up to a million searches per day meaning they'd lose out on all that advertising money that they
get.
Now there are infinite ways to make your code more performant and your web site faster.
So in this section we're going to focus on the main things that get you 80 percent of the benefits.
Let's get started shall we.
First let's recap what happens when you usually browse to a Web site.
We have a client and a server.
Let's say you're on Google over here and you want to visit super fresh dotcom this awesome Web site.
Well in that case you make a request a request to the server.
That server returns the ASTM file and then within the mail file the browser starts reading it and finds
you.
I have a style sheet that I need to get.
So goes to the server once again grabs the stylesheet and then as it's looking at the file.
We also have an image that we need.
So in the background it requests the image and again the image gets transferred over and over.
There's also a script tag a job a secure file.
So again we need that as well.
Now this is a simplified version of what happens and we'll get into the nitty gritty details who the
performance sections of this course.
But the core concepts are here.
We have a client and a server relationship and the e-mail file gives us an indication of what files
we need from the server OK but how can we think critically about performance and improve the process.
Especially as our web applications get bigger and bigger.
Most people are just happy putting a Web site online but that's not us right.
We want to impress our bosses we want to show them that we just improve their company's Web site which
translates to more revenue for them.
We want to show Brunow that we know what we're doing and that we're pretty much a superstar so remember
your visitors expect your site to load within two seconds.
And about half of them will leave if it takes more than three seconds.
Now each second of delay decreases customer satisfaction and possibly money.
So nothing signals junior developer like having your portfolio website load an unnecessary five megabyte
image for your home page.
So in the next video and the ones following that we're going to learn these principles so that we never
make performance mistakes again.
I'll see that one by.